[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Using JavaScript
to manipulate the DOM.
This is fun stuff.
I like this stuff because people
start finally saying like, okay,
we went through all this academic
exercises, I mean, who cares, right?
I'm going to show you
right now why you care.
[LAUGH] You're actually going to start
making changes to your webpages using
JavaScript.
So what is jQuery?
jQuery is JavaScript, right?
jQuery is just a bunch of JavaScript
that some really smart guy,
his name is John Resig, wrote so that your
JavaScript is way easier to write, okay.
But again, this is just purely JavaScript.
This is a JavaScript tool set.
It's main purpose is to make
common tasks in JavaScript easier.
Like, for example,
changing a class on a DOM Node can be
kind of difficult for people to grasp,
but in jQuery they just made this
syntax really simple, so it's cool.
jQuery is also used on some 80%
of the top websites in the world.
It's like, as far as like libraries or
tool sets or
anything like that, it's far and
above the most common.
Everyone to some extent in the JavaScript
world knows at least that much jQuery.
So if you see that $ notation,
like $, then parenthesis,
like nine times out of ten
that's gonna be jQuery,
like that's kinda like their calling card,
like if you see $, it is jQuery.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Question on the difference
between toolkit, tool set, and framework?
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH]
The pragmatic answer is not a lot.
There's these words thrown around toolkit,
tool set,
which I take those to be synonyms.
And then there's another word, framework.
That's just, again,
JavaScript someone else wrote, or
a code that someone else wrote
to make your life easier.
It's a philosophy difference, and if you
actually wanna get into it, I talk about
it in my other Friend and Masters Class,
which is the JavaScript Showdown.
So, that would actually be
great reference for that.
>> Speaker 3: Two months from now.
>> Brian Holt: Two months from now.
Cool, so $, if you see a $ like that,
that's jQuery's calling card.
So, let's actually start
writing some jQuery, okay?
Got a codepen down here
>> Brian Holt: Let's
just collapse this one right here.
All right, let's first look at
our html real quick, right?
So, I have my html, I have a p right here,
where I have bunch of Lorem ipsum text,
right?
Down here, this is probably
your first time seeing this.
I have a script tag, and
all the script tag is doing is
it's pulling in jQuery, right?
If you wanna be able to use jQuery,
you have to pull it in first, right?
That's what that does, it says hey,
go out to jQuery's website, grab jQuery,
and load it.
So now we have all this JavaScript
on our page that we can now use.
Does that make sense?
Cool, so
you might be asking yourself is like,
I see all this Lorem ipsum text,
it's not showing up over here.
Why?
That's a great question,
I'm glad you asked.
>> Audience: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So
I have this little snippet
of JavaScript right here,
caption-text, and then .text('Magic!').
So, notice over here,
I have a class called caption-text.
Here, you remember the syntax, right?
This looks like CSS, right?
Like that .caption-text is referring
to the class caption-text.
They did that on purpose so
it should feel like CSS to you.
For example, if this had an ID of my
cool ID, how would I refer to it?
Hash my cool ID, cool.
Or again like I could say p here as well,
this would also work.
Because it would refer
to this p right here.
So, you see $ and then in quotes
you're gonna have the selector, right?
So on this,
what I had before was caption-text.
>> Brian Holt: And then after that,
this is now essentially that,
this contains that jQuery element for
you to operate on.
Here we're calling the text method,
which is a jQuery method, right?
It's not a JavaScript method,
it's built into jQuery.
And I'm saying I want you to
set the text to be Magic.
We're gonna go over this a bunch, so
if this doesn't make sense right now,
I'm going to hammer it into your head.
>> Speaker 5: Hey, what's the $, again?
>> Brian Holt: That's essentially jQuery,
essentially it is this jQuery.
>> Speaker 5: So it's telling you that
this line of JavaScript is jQuery.
>> Brian Holt: Yes.
>> Speaker 6: $ is really the name of
the function.
>> Brian Holt: It is.
>> Speaker 6: It's just a function comp.
>> Brian Holt: And you can actually put
jQuery here and it will still work.
But everyone, again,
in the world is super lazy,
myself included, they just do
the $ because it's one letter.
>> Speaker 7: So, it's like JQuery.text.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 7: Magic.
>> Brian Holt: There you go.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, good question.
Other questions, we good with this?
>> Speaker 8: Is there a way to see all
the functions attached to that jQuery?
>> Brian Holt: There certainly is but
I'd say look at the docs, right?
jQuery has awesome documentation.
In fact, let's just go ahead and
pull it up real quick.
>> Speaker 8: There's not a way in
a JavaScript object to give a list of its
members, properties, functions.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, the answer to
that question is not very well.
>> Brian Holt: I'm sure there
is a way to pull it apart but
it's not going to be very useful.
>> Speaker 6: Do some of the IDE tools,
like WebStorm.
>> Brian Holt: They all have jQuery stuff
built into it, so, particularly WebStorm.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
jQuery has these documentation.
You just look up here to the like,
what am I looking, API documentation.
Awesome, these documentations have been
edited and re-edited and re-edited, so
they're really succinct.
They're actually really quite useful and
intuitive.
>> Speaker 3: We have
a course called jQuery.
It's done by the guy who
actually made this documentation.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, definitely,
so check that out as well.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: Cool, yeah,
anything you would wanna
ever know about this,
I mean let's look at the text one,
we just did that, so.
>> Brian Holt: And it just tells you, this
method does not accept any arguments or
that one doesn't rather,
but we gave it text, so
text right here, this is one that we used.
So I guess that's another good
point to bring up is that these
functions will do different things
depending on what arguments are given.
So if I say .text with no arguments,
what it does is it goes up and
grabs the text and gives it back to me.
Whereas if I give it text, it's assuming
that you want to give it text, so
you're actually going to set what it is.
In this particular case,
we did magic, right?
>> Speaker 9: Somebody mentioned in
chat that $.fn actually will list all
the functions.
>> Brian Holt: Does it?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: [object Object].
Yeah, that could probably
console.log [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 9: Looks like if
you console.log and it worked.
>> Brian Holt: There you go,
everything, right there.
But again, this is not super useful.
I would still recommend
sticking to the docs.
>> Speaker 10: Well, for
jQuery, but there's other APIs,
functions that are other objects
that you might not have documented.
>> Brian Holt: Totally, cool.
>> Speaker 11: So it's still the HTML
that's ultimately controlling the output,
in the sense that we don't
need a document.write or
some other way to tell it to put that
on the screen, it's just the HTML.
And we're just,
jQuery is like intervening and changing?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
that's a good way of thinking about it.
All jQuery is is it's
using raw JavaScript and
just essentially making things
that are kind of difficult to do,
they essentially write all
the difficult syntax for you so
you can have a very clean and
easy to use API.
But there's nothing that jQuery is
doing that you can't do by yourself.
In fact, there's a lot of people
that don't use jQuery because most
of the tasks they use for
jQuery are somewhat easy to do anyway.
But jQuery is a good place to get started,
I mean,
I've been using it forever so
I recommend it.